Welcome back to another challenge and this one we're going to validate the item fields of the global
superstore before submitting the form.
And so in order to validate fields, we need access to all of the constraint, annotations and classes
that are provided from the library of files in the validation dependency.
So we'll go over and look for spring boot validation dependency.
Go to the central maven repo.
I'll choose a dependency that matches my spring boot version.
However, going back to that XML file, the version for spring boot starters is already been specified,
so we don't need to actually include the version.
Okay.
Now going to task two.
We need to make sure that the category and name fields are not blank.
The price and discounts cannot be zero and the date must not be in the present or in the future.
First thing to look out for is the only way our category field ends up being blank is if the user selects
the choose category option, which equals a blank value.
So over here we need to make sure the value submitted is not blank.
And if it is, we will display a message that says Please select a category.
Okay.
Now we need to also make sure that the name they input is not blank.
If it is, we'll say name cannot be blank.
The price and discount can be at minimum zero.
So the value has to be at least zero.
And if it isn't, we will say price cannot be negative.
The discount cannot be zero.
So we'll say discount cannot be negative.
And we need to make sure that data that they provide is in the past.
If it's not, we will say the date must be of the past.
We don't need to validate ID because it's auto generated and I think that should be it.
Now, these constraint annotations alone don't really do anything unless we actually validate the fields
that were submitted in the post request.
And so when a post request is made, a new item object is created and spring boot updates every field
in this item object.
But as it's doing so, we need to validate every single value that's being used to update the fields
and what's going to carry the result of the validation is the binding results.
Binding result results.
Always make sure to define your binding result after the validation process.
Otherwise, I'm pretty sure spring boots are going to throw an exception.
Now the binding result as it carries the result of our validation, we can check if the result has any
errors.
If that's the case, we can just return the form.
Okay.
Maybe there's no need to run our code just yet.
Let's finalize task number two.
So if the result so if the binding result ends up having any errors, it keeps record of the object
where those values came from.
And it also keeps a record of every error that's associated with each field in the object.
So right above each form element, we're going to display the error that corresponds to it using a paragraph
element.
A paragraph element is just used to display text and we're going to display the error that's in our
binding result here.
We're going to select the error that's associated with the category field, and we'll give it a style
equals color red.
Here, we will select the error that's associated with the name field.
Price.
Discount.
Order dates.
And the ID is hidden.
No need to do anything here.
I think we're ready to run our code.
All right.
Um.
Let's just make sure everything is erroneous.
Negative four and negative five will choose a value in the future.
Looking good so far.
Now, the reason why this happens is because these were initially side by side, and the following error
message was displayed between them.
So what I'm going to do is grab this error message and put it right beside the price error message.
Let's try this again.
Beautiful.
Going back to task number three.
Upon returning the form, the drop down list loses its data.
Let's make sure that happens.
And indeed it does.
And now I don't know about you, but do you think it would make sense to keep adding this array to the
model every single time we display the form?
I don't think so.
Now actually having the categories constant inside of our spring boot source code doesn't make any sense
because number one, it doesn't contribute to any of the logic inside of the store controller and the
data inside of it is fixed.
The only purpose this data is serving is updating values inside of our dropdown, so it should be integrated
directly inside the HTML.
There is no reason to pass it from our spring boot up to the HTML when it only serves one purpose,
which is to update the view with fixed data so we will remove it.
Remove the following and then inside of form that HTML.
We don't need this time loop.
It was only there for you to practice.
We can just directly add three options.
This one will say furniture.
Here, we will say office supplies and then technology.
And the value that each option will equal will match the content that it's displaying.
So when the user selects one of these options, it's the value that determines what gets bound to our
field and in turn passed into a post request.
This text over here means nothing.
Anyways, we already covered that, but if we go ahead and try everything out again, should always
touch your code.
Everything works exactly as it should.
But we're not going to choose anything.
We'll make sure everything is erroneous.
Submit the item.
All right.
We'll say negative five.
Negative four.
Beautiful.
Try to select categories and we're good.
And if I may say so, this even looks a lot cleaner than our family flu.
It wasn't necessary.
The final task is to apply cross field validation to the price and discount, such that the price cannot
be less than the discount.
This is something you already learned about in Workbook 3.2.
Cross field validation is a way to not just compare a single field, but to make sure that the combination
of data they're submitting makes sense.
So what we need to do is go back to handle submit.
So just because the payload from the post request is valid in the sense that the price and discount
fields are both bigger than zero, we still need to make sure if.
The price.
So we'll say if items get price.
Is greater than.
Or is less than.
Item, not the get discount.
If that happens to be the case, we need to reject one of these values.
So we'll say result, reject value.
The value that we're going to reject will be the price field.
You can reject discount.
It doesn't matter.
Error code, you will leave blank.
And the default message will be price cannot be less than discount.
So even though there weren't any errors validating each individual field, once you reject a particular
field, then the binding result records an error for that field.
There are errors, so it's going to return the form view.
And then our final leaf attribute to will display the error that's associated with the price.
All right.
Think we're ready to run our code?
We'll just we'll do everything right, but we'll set a price of 300 with a discount of 500.
Order a date will be.
Uh, May 5th, submit the item.
Price cannot be less than discount.
Great.
And looks like we're all done.
As always, I like to visualize the runtime using breakpoints before wrapping up.
If you want to stop here, by all means, if you want to trace the runtime with me, then you're most
welcome.
So I'm going to stop the runtime.
And then just add breakpoints inside of handle submit.
Um.
Yeah.
Maybe I'll just add them here.
That should be good enough.
Now we're in the application and debug mode.
Okay.
I'll go back to local host 8080.
First.
All the data I'll submit will be faulty.
Submit the item.
Okay.
So at this point, all of the data was passed into a post request.
Spring Boot created an item object behind the scenes and populated every single field in this object
with values from the post request.
Here you can see all the data, but then as the fields were being populated with payload from the post
request, it was being validated using the constraints that we applied to each field, and the binding
result carries the result of this validation.
So here, if we drill into the result, we can see that there are actually four errors.
We have an array list with four errors.
It keeps a record of the object where these errors came from.
And Thiamine is able to access every single error that belongs to each field.
So by the time we display the form.
It displays those errors all the right.
Now, if I were to say ten bucks here.
50 bucks here will choose a category.
We'll put a name of.
Couch
order.
Date will just leave that to be a good value.
So at this point, every individual field was validated and it concludes that there are no errors.
However, just because each individual field is valid in its own, we still need to compare the data
to make sure that what was submitted actually makes sense.
Here, we're checking if the item price is lower than the item discount.
If that happens to be the case, we need to reject either the price or the discount because one of them
is clearly wrong in this case.
We reject the price.
So now we have one error in the binding result that corresponds to the price field.
And the message that will be displayed is price cannot be less than discount.
So right before we return the form, finally, if errors is going to grab the error message that's associated
with the price field.
And that is exactly what we see.
I hope you enjoyed this challenge.
It wasn't too hard compared to what we did in Java Gram.
And now I have to admit, although we have come a long way with the Global Superstore application,
the code is getting really, really messy.
We haven't really done that much and the code is already starting to pile up and that's why in the next
section we're going to refactor our code into a three layer code base.
I can't wait to see you there.